and righteous, ruling and reigning above it all.
Hebrews chapter one verse three.
Says he sustains the universe by the word of his power.
He is the Lord Jesus Christ, ruler and reigner over all things.
But he's also personal and he's intimate and he cares about you.
And as followers of Jesus as we gather together today, we sing praises to the king above all kings who knows you and loves you and calls you by name.
So now as a follower of Christ, let us boldly approach the throne of grace.
Let us seek the face of God together in prayer.
Can we go together?
Our father, we think you that we can boldly approach your throne of grace because of Jesus, our great high priest.
That by him, through him, and for him are all things.
And in him, all things hold together.
We think you that there is no name higher than Jesus.
No name better than Jesus.
We think that He is mighty to save.
Lord, I'm so thankful that we as followers of Jesus can seek Your face.
I pray, Father, Your blessing upon Your people today.
Lord, those in this room, those engaging online right now, I pray that You would draw us to a deep, abiding faith in Your Son.
Lord, as many in this room are facing trials of many kinds.
Would You strict in their faith?
Would You remind them of who You are in their life?
Your holy forever.
Your faithful.
You're kind, you're true, you're trustworthy, you're patient, you are love, you are light, and you care so deeply for them.
Would you show yourself faithful as your people's provider?
Would you protect your people?
Would you strengthen them in the faith?
I pray far that you would use your people as missionaries for the sake of Jesus.
May our neighbors come to faith in Christ because of our witness to Jesus
May the nations rejoice in Jesus because of your people.
I'm so grateful for this time in which we get to gather together as your elect, your called, your loved people.
I pray, Lord, even now as we open your word, would you teach?
Would you encourage?
Would you strengthen your people?
And may you commission us out to go and impact our world for Jesus.
Thank you for your great love for us.
We love you and trust you in Jesus, name me, pray.
And all God's people said, amen.
Amen, church, you may be seated.
So, so grateful for this time that we have together.
I wouldn't take just a moment.
Yesterday, our tech team, our band, our praise team, they had a workshop.
And twice a year, they come in on an all day Saturday,
And they learn, they grow, they practice.
We bring in different aficionados who come and train up and encourage our people and train them.
And so if you get a chance to thank them, they put in a lot of time and effort to serve us.
And I'm just so grateful for their perseverance and diligence in serving us as a faith family.
Hopefully, we're coming to the end of cold weather.
I'm certainly eager and ready for it.
But what's interesting, I was reminded this week, January of 1850, there was a blizzard that struck Colchester, England.
And on that specific Sunday morning, the blizzard was so bad people had a hard time getting out of their homes to get to church that day, including the preacher.
So in this small congregational Methodist church, off to the side, with winds howling and snow accumulating,
a young 16-year-old boy went into this church just to find reprieve, refuge from this blizzard conditions.
And there, the church sat, gathered of only about 12 people who could make it that day.
They sat, they waited, and the preacher never showed up.
So an old man shuffled his feet up to the platform.
He opened his Bible.
to the prophet Isaiah, and he read the text from Isaiah, and he read these words, Isaiah 45, 22, look unto me, and be ye saved all the ends of the earth.
This unpolished preacher, this nameless man who no one knew, said it again, look unto me, and be ye saved all the ends of the earth.
not knowing what to say next.
He said it again, except louder.
Look unto me, be saved all the ends of the earth.
Look, look, look unto the Lord Jesus Christ and you shall be saved.
That's right.
That 16 year old boy sitting in the back, this old man pointed his finger at him and says, you young man looked miserable.
And you will be miserable in life, you will be miserable in death if you do not obey my text.
I tell you today, look unto the Lord Jesus Christ and be ye saved.
That 16 year old boy was Charles Spurgeon's.
That's right.
That met young man when he ventured to become one of the greatest preachers in England's history.
a man who continues to influence my life, ministry, and theology.
All because a preacher stood up and said, look unto the Lord Jesus Christ.
Look, look, look.
You see, when you look to Jesus by faith, it is in that moment that you are born again.
And that is what Jesus is teaching Nicodemus
in John chapter three.
Let me show you.
Grab your Bible and turn with me to John chapter three.
We're going to the book of John together as a faith family.
As your pastor, I love to go book by book, verse by verse, studying this great text that God has given to us.
It was a joy last week to take some time to look at Romans chapter 10 together.
I have a great commission focus last week, our Lift Mission Summit.
I left that summit so encouraged of what God is doing amongst the nations and through our mission partners.
I got to spend several meals with a lot of our mission partners, both globally and locally, and they are so grateful for you.
because we as a faith family, we pray for them, we give to their ministry, we go and partner with them.
This year, we're sending mission teams all over the world to tell people about Jesus.
In fact, in the next service, we're not only baptizing a young girl who's come to faith in Christ, we're also gonna be commissioning three women who are gonna be taking the gospel to unreheap peoples in Southeast Asia.
And so we as a church are gonna continue to play offense with the gospel and pointing a lot of people to Jesus.
We're going through John's gospel together and we have titled it so that you may believe.
We get this title from John's thesis that he gets at the end of this book in which he declares, I write these things to you so that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing in him, you may have life in his name.
Now when we covered back in John 2, we, David Peacock, preached for us two weeks ago, and when she was looking at the text, primarily at the Jesus cleansing the temple.
And now we see Jesus having a late night conversation with one of the leading religious leaders of the day, Nicodemus, a man who was impressed by the miracles, the signs and wonders of Jesus and all that he has done.
So in order to protect his reputation, he comes to see Jesus under the cover of night.
He wants to have a discussion about theology.
But Jesus isn't interested in the coffee house theological debate.
Jesus wanted this man's soul.
You see, Jesus came to, Nicodemus came to talk to Jesus wanting to talk to him about God, not realizing that he was talking to God.
Did it?
That's what we're gonna pick up.
John chapter three, beginning verse one, the Holy Scripture says this.
There was a man from the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
This man came to him at night and said, Rabbi, we know that you're a teacher who has come from God, for no one could perform these signs you do unless God were with him.
Jesus replied, truly, I tell you, unless someone is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
How can anyone be born when he's old, Nicodemus asked him?
Can he enter his mother's womb a second time and be born?
Jesus answered, truly, I tell you, unless someone is born of water in the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.
Whatever is born of the flesh is flesh.
And whenever is born of the Spirit in the Spirit, do not be amazed that I told you that you must be born again.
The wind blows where it pleases and you hear it sound, but you don't know where it comes from or where it's going.
So it is, with everyone born of the Spirit.
How can these things be, Ask Nicodemus?
Are you a teacher of Israel and don't know these things?
Truly, I tell you, we speak what we know and what we testify to, what we have seen, but you do not accept our testimony.
If I have told you about earthly things and you don't believe, how will you believe if I told you about heavenly things?
No one has ascended into heaven except the one who descended from heaven, the Son of Man.
Just as Moses lifted up the snake in the wilderness, saw the Son of Man must be lifted up so that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life.
For God loved the world in this way.
He gave his one and only son so that everyone who believes in him will not perish, but have eternal life.
For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him.
Anyone who believes in him is not condemned.
But anyone who does not believe is already condemned because he has not believed in the name of the one and only son of God.
This is the judgment.
The light has come into the world and people love darkness rather than the light because their deeds were evil.
For everyone who does evil hates the light and avoids it so that his deeds may not be exposed.
But anyone who lives by the truth comes to the light so that his works may be shown to be accomplished by God.
Jesus turns the tables from this being a casual conversation about religion to an evangelistic confrontation about the kingdom.
Jesus answers the question that every human being must know the answer to.
How do I receive eternal life?
Notice from the text what God does to get us into the kingdom and how we can experience eternal
life.
The first thing I want you to do is to text.
I want you to see that the spirit quickens.
The spirit quickens.
As a Jewish leader, Nicodemus was unfortunately trusting in the wrong things to grant himself or to gain eternal life.
This is a man who is trusting in his piety, he's trusting in his position, he's trusting in his pedigree.
In his piety, here's a guy who's trusting in his religious works.
Verse one says that he is a Pharisee.
Now, a Pharisee were the leading scholars of the day, leaders of leaders.
He was probably a member of the Sanhedrin.
The Sanhedrin is like the Supreme Court of Judaism.
In the first century, there were about 70 men who served both Sadducees and Pharisees who served on this religious council.
Their job was to memorize and know the Old Testament and to apply it to the people.
Nicodemus is a professional theologian.
He was trusting, however, in his piety, in his religious works.
Here's a man who was trusting in who he was in his religious actions.
But being religious doesn't get you into the kingdom.
But not only being religious,
or being pious, Jesus also addressed this, is that it's not piety, it's not your position.
Here's a man who is highly ranked, okay?
He's one of the leading teachers, verse one, in all of Judaism.
This is one of the top dogs, the top religious leaders.
So he comes to Jesus at night to not put his reputation at risk.
But he's genuinely inquiring about who Jesus is and how someone gets eternal life.
But again, he's trusting in his piety.
He's trusting in his position.
He's also trusting in his pedigree.
Verse one, he's a Jew.
Jewish people thought, well, because of my lineage, because of what blood flows through my veins, I'm directly connected to Abraham.
Therefore, I'm automatically in the kingdom.
Jesus is making it very clear you don't get into the kingdom by being pious, having a position or your pedigree.
You don't come to know, come into the kingdom because your grandmama is a believer.
You're not in the kingdom because your daddy is a preacher.
You're not in the kingdom because you're religious, because you go to church.
Those things don't save Jesus' sakes.
You must bank your soul on the person and work of Jesus Christ.
When Jesus is right here unpacking for Nicodemus, for a man who's trusting in all the wrong things, he is now pivoting into a new direction.
Your faith in Jesus is what saves.
Well, Nicodemus, he respects Jesus first too.
He acknowledges that he's a one who has come from God.
He has seen his miracles.
In fact, if you backpedal into chapter two, verse 23, it says, when Jesus was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing.
The people loved seeing Jesus perform these signs and miracles.
They're amazed by what he's doing.
So then Jesus says back in chapter two, you want a sign?
I'll give you a sign, tear down this temple, and I'll raise it in three days.
Obviously not talking about the physical temple of the building, but the temple of his body.
You know, one of the greatest miracle that God can display is the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ.
He goes to a cross, dies in our place, and then rises again on the third day.
There's the sign that God wants you to look to.
Well, then Jesus says this, unless someone is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
Now, this shocked Nicodemus.
This is confusing for him.
He doesn't quite understand what Jesus means.
So he follows up with two questions, trying to grab hold of what Jesus has said.
Because what Jesus has just said is not humanly possible.
Okay, so Nicodemus is like, okay, wait a minute, Jesus, to be born again, you're not saying that we have to basically go back up into our mother's womb and actually be born again.
He's sitting here thinking, this is impossible physically.
That's the point.
Jesus is about to drive home that is not based upon man's works, man's effort, or about man's logic.
It is something that is beyond us.
Our salvation is beyond who we are or what we can do.
You see, for self-righteous religious Jews, this was devastating.
Nicodemus was trusting in his religious works.
He's trusting in his self-righteous effort to get him to God.
But he can't fix his greatest problem.
He cannot meet his greatest need.
Same is true for you.
You cannot fix your greatest problem.
You cannot meet your greatest need.
Your greatest problem is sin.
And it divides in all of us.
And on our own, you cannot wash it off, you cannot cleanse it off, you can't go get a prescription for it.
You've got to have someone who will do something for you, something outside of you.
A miraculous work has to take place to bring you into the kingdom.
There has to be a work of the Holy Spirit in your life.
You have to experience a new birth, a radical transformation of the heart.
If you went to my house, there's a safety deposit box that we have locked up, and when you unlock it and you open it, there's a birth certificate.
It has my name on it.
And on this birth certificate, it gives the Commonwealth of Kentucky, it gives my date of birth, it puts my parents' names, the hospital in which I was born,
And it's just this moment which documented in history a time in which I came into existence into this world.
But do you know on April the 18th of 1982, do you know what I did in my own effort to be born?
Nice.
I was completely dependent upon someone else.
Someone else had to put forth the effort on my behalf.
And the same is true for you physically and the same is true for you spiritually.
You are completely dependent upon someone else to give you new life.
The Holy Spirit of God is the one who comes into your heart and he changes you.
He changes your heart.
That's what Jesus is describing here in the text.
It's the work of the Holy Spirit.
He says to your verse five, truly, I tell you, unless someone's born of water and the spirit, unless you are washed with a cleansing water that does not come from you, unless the Holy Spirit of God changes you, you cannot get into the kingdom.
Okay, do not be amazed, and I told you this.
It is the work of the Spirit of God who changes your heart that enables you to jump kingdoms.
that takes you from death to life.
Let's stop here.
If you're a follower of Jesus, you have experienced a miracle.
God has taken you from death into life.
Do not stop being amazed at the salvation that you possess in Jesus.
You may think, okay, I've got a pretty boring testimony.
I didn't go crazy.
I didn't go buck wild.
I've stayed close to Jesus.
You were dead and now you're alive.
No such thing as a boring resurrection.
And what has happened in your life, if you're a follower of Jesus, is that you have been born again.
There's been a transformation of your heart, and it's a complete work of the Holy Spirit of God.
And so if you are in Christ, would you make sure you take time today to praise and thank God that He has saved you?
He has changed your heart.
He has given you new life.
He has made you born again.
If you're here today or watching online and you do not know Jesus yet, today you can be born again.
This is the invitation of God from His Word to you, inviting you to believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ.
When you say yes, by faith, the Lord Jesus Christ is the Holy Spirit of God working in your heart, wooing you, drawing you, calling you to Jesus.
and you would thank your soul upon him.
If you're here today and don't know Christ, believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ.
Look by faith to the Lord Jesus and you will be saved.
It's a wonderful gospel that's open to anybody and everybody.
We'll get there in just a moment in verse 16.
But it's the work of God to transform your heart.
Like the wind, the spirit blows wherever he wills verse eight.
He's working, He's moving in the hearts of people.
Like the wind, you cannot control Him.
The Spirit of God does what He wants.
But you can see where He is at work.
Just as you can't see the wind, but you can see the wind's effects.
So it is with the Spirit of God.
You cannot see Him, but you can see where He's working.
You can see people's lives being transformed by the gospel.
You can see a transformation of the heart that looks like a changed life that people say, man, you don't talk like you're used to.
You don't think like you're used to.
You don't behave like you're used to.
Have you gotten religious?
No, I've met Jesus.
The Holy Spirit of God has changed my heart and life.
I am not who I used to be.
Verse eight, the spirit blows where he wills and you will see him at work.
You can see evidence of him
working in people's lives.
And by the way, I want to be a part of a church where the Holy Spirit of God is changing people's lives.
Come on.
Ah, come on.
Let's go.
Spirit of God takes people from death to life.
Imagine that you're sitting on an airplane and the person next to you all of a sudden they slump over.
No pulse, no air, no breathing.
They're dead until someone goes to get the defibrillator.
That's a hard word to say.
They bring, charge it up.
They attach the paddles to the person's heart, shock them, heartbeat, pulse, life.
That person was completely dependent upon something outside of themselves to make them come alive.
That's what the Holy Spirit does.
When you hear the gospel, the good news of what Jesus has done for you, that He lived that perfect, sinless life that you couldn't live.
And He died the death that you deserved at the cross.
And He gladly bore the punishment on your behalf so that you don't have to.
And His blood was shed for the forgiveness of your sins.
And that when you, by faith, hear the good news of Jesus and you bank your soul upon him, you believe upon Lord Jesus Christ, it is then that you are born again.
The Holy Spirit of God has quickened you.
So what has God done to bring you into the kingdom?
The spirit quickens.
Number two, the sun rescues.
Oh man, this is so good.
Nicodemus, he remains confused.
Still scratching his head at this shocking insinuation that Jesus is making, that salvation is not based on man's religious works.
So Jesus asked him, how can you, a teacher of Israel, not understand this?
Jesus then points to himself as the one
who has come from heaven to reveal the ways of God.
Now to drive this home, Jesus points Nicodemus back to Numbers, the book of Numbers, chapter 21.
Put your finger there on verse 14.
Jesus says, just as Moses lifted up the snake in the wilderness, so the Son of Man must be lifted up.
Now, if you're unfamiliar with Numbers 21, that people of Israel have rebelled against the Lord.
They have spoken against Moses, and so God brings judgment.
He sins in serpents, these snakes that are venomous, and they are biting the people.
They are dying.
That's right.
It is a terrible moment that people run to Moses and say, we are so sorry, what can we do to be saved from this terrible death that is coming for us?
The Lord tells Moses, form a bronze serpent, put it on a pole and lift it up.
And anyone who is bitten by the snake and looks to the serpent on the pole, they will be saved.
They will be healed.
Isn't it interesting here?
Side note, every time you look at an ambulance, do you see what's on the side?
You see a pole with a serpent around it.
comes from Numbers 21.
Jesus is telling Nicodemus, the moment, this moment in Israel, it's pointing to me because I, the son of man, am going to be lifted up, not on a pole, but on a cross.
And everyone who's been infected by the venomous bite of sin, they look by faith to me and they will be saved from death.
See, Numbers 21 is driving to the person and work of Jesus who is the one who has lifted up on a cross.
The work of the Son, the work of the Lord Jesus Christ.
He already knew why he came.
Here in John chapter three, he's already foreshadowing the cross.
He's anticipating the death that is ahead of him.
And here he's referencing Numbers 21 and saying, it's driving to me.
I am the one who will be lifted up and everyone who looks
upon the Son of Man who is exalted and lifted high, they will be saved.
Have you looked by faith to Jesus?
You see, you have two sets of eyes.
The Bible tells us, you have these and you have these.
Ephesians chapter one, you have the eyes of your heart.
You have eyes that are physical, but you have eyes that are spiritual.
Now Satan has blinded the minds of unbelievers so that they cannot see the life of the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
So what does God do?
The Holy Spirit gets involved.
And he illumines, he opens the eyes of your heart to see Jesus by faith.
That you look upon Christ, not with these eyes, but with these.
That you're looking by faith to the Lord Jesus Christ.
Jesus is driving at home here in the text.
Those who look, those who see this exalted son of man, they will be saved.
Isaiah prophesied this.
Isaiah 52, 13, see, my servant will be successful.
He will be raised and lifted up and greatly exalted.
It's beautiful here.
It's anticipation pointing forward to the work of Jesus.
Isaiah 45, 22 says, look to me and be saved.
All you ends of the earth.
For I am God and there is no other.
Imagine for a moment that you're in a building that is caught fire.
Smoke has filled the room.
You have to crouch down low to the ground and crawl your way out.
But in the midst of the darkness and the smoke and the heat that you're feeling, you don't know your way to get out of the room.
But all of a sudden, off in the distance, above a door, you see those four beautiful letters shining in neon green.
E-X-I-T. Fire marshals very intentionally will put exit, bright, right above the door, so that when you're down low, all you gotta do is look up, and you found salvation from death.
You see, if you want to be saved, you got to get down low.
You're under the heat of sin and death that is crawling upon you.
But if you look up to the Lord Jesus Christ, He is your exit from death.
He is your exit from judgments.
He is the one who will save all who look to Him.
Jesus here is driving the Nicodemus and He's driving you to look unto Him and be saved.
See, salvation is accomplished completely, not by your works, but by Jesus' works for you.
You're banking your soul upon Christ's sinless life, his perfect, substitutionary death in your place, his victorious resurrection from the dead, that everyone who banks their souls upon him, you will be saved.
So salvation is a work of God.
The Spirit quickens, the son rescues,
But then thirdly, the hearer responds.
You see, the command in the Old Testament was to look and you will live.
The command in the New Testament is the same.
You look and you will live.
The difference is in the Old Testament, they're looking forward to the Messiah.
They're looking forward to the Son of Man who would come and save.
And the New Testament, we're now looking backwards.
at the cross.
Old Testament looks forward.
We're looking backwards at the finished work of Christ.
But you're looking, you're seeing, and you respond.
Jesus says, everyone who believes in the lifted up Son of Man will have eternal life.
For God so loved the world that He gave to free gift offered to you.
It's the initiative of God, the free gift of God.
And he gave his one and only son, the Lord Jesus Christ, that whoever believes on him will not perish, but have everlasting life.
You possess it.
It is yours.
It is the work of God.
It's a free gift of salvation that is yours.
All you've got to do is respond and believe, to say yes to Jesus, to bank your soul upon him.
You see, Jesus came on a rescue mission.
not to condemn the world, but to save the world through himself.
And if you believe upon Jesus, you will not be condemned, John 3 17.
This is good news, by the way.
If you're in Christ, hell is off the table.
It means the worst that you experience in this life is the worst it's gonna get for you.
But if you don't know Jesus, this life is as good as it gets for you.
And if you reject the free gift of God in Jesus Christ, you stand condemned already, Jesus says, because you have not believed on God's one and only son.
But you see, God doesn't want you to perish.
He wants all to be saved and come to a knowledge of the truth.
God desires first Timothy,
for all to come to His Son.
But that's why Jesus came.
He came to take your judgment at the cross.
He took all of your sin in the condemnation that you deserved.
He gladly bore it for you on Calvary.
All you have to do is believe.
It's interesting, seven times and seven verses.
Jesus uses the verb, believe.
Verse 15, believe in him.
Verse 16, believe in him.
Verse 18, believe in him.
Verse 18, believe in the name of the one and only Son of God.
You see, it's a believe, it's a trust.
It's to put your full weight upon him.
Just as at night you put the full weight of your body upon your mattress.
What we do as believers is we put the full weight of our souls onto Jesus.
We are resting in Christ for salvation.
We are saying, I'm not going to try anything.
I'm on two feet.
I'm not pulling up the bootstraps on my salvation.
I'm by God's grace going to rest out of my work, but Christ finished work for me.
In 1859, Charles Blonden, he was a French acrobat who would do these death defying tricks to amaze his crowds.
He walked 1,100 feet across Niagara Falls on a three inch tightrope.
He went back and forth on this tight rope.
He would turn to his crowd and say, do you believe that I can do it blindfolded?
The crowd would roar.
Yes, we believe.
He would blindfold himself and walk right across that tight rope.
And he would say, do you believe I can do it on stilts?
Yes, we believe.
He gets on the stilts and walks across Niagara Falls and comes back.
Do you believe
I can do it with a wheelbarrow.
Yes, we believe.
Off he goes.
Do you believe I can do it with someone in the wheelbarrow?
Yes, we believe.
Who's the volunteer's gonna go first?
Silence.
faith is not just saying you believe faith is getting in the wheelbarrow of king jesus saying i believe that you can usher me safely to the other side i feel that you have secured me you see have you not just been like the crowd saying oh i believe but you're not willing to get into the wheelbarrow jesus
Would you today say, Lord, I believe, and I'm gonna prove it by banking, resting, sitting in that wheelbarrow saying, Lord Jesus, I trust and I believe.
See, that's what Jesus is driving home here.
It's the response, it's the believe, it's the trusting, it's the banking of your soul in Jesus Christ.
And when you do,
You step into the light.
That's how Jesus finishes this conversation here with Nicodemus.
He talks about lights.
The light of Jesus, it does two things.
It exposes our wicked deeds, but it also points us to healing that's found in him.
But those who hate the light, those who reject the gospel, those who hate this idea of submitting their lives to Jesus, they love their wickedness more than they love Jesus.
So they reject it.
The clearest example of this is our first parents in Genesis 3.
They sin in the garden and what do they do?
They go into hiding.
They don't want anything to do with the light of God.
They're afraid that their sins are going to be exposed, the shame that they're going to experience.
So they hide.
But God loves sinners.
God loves people.
We see there in Genesis 3.
God goes marching in the garden and says, Adam, where
are you.
Not physically, I see you behind that bush, relationally.
Our relationship has been broken.
What has happened?
It's interesting.
God pursues us hiding in the darkness.
He comes and what's interesting, you keep reading Genesis 3, we see where God clothed them with animal skins.
There had to be a blood sacrifice and God covers their shame.
God himself takes the initiative
And he cares for his people and says, I'm going to take away your sin and shame.
I'm going to do it through sacrifice of blood.
What does that sound like?
That God himself in Jesus Christ takes the initiative.
calls us out of darkness into his marvelous light.
We come before him naked, embarrassed, and ashamed of what we have done in our sin and transgressions.
And God says, I know all about it, and I'm going to cover you with my love.
And through the sacrificial death of my son, through his shed blood, I'm going to clothe you in his righteousness, and I'm going to make you mine.
It's a beautiful gospel portrayal there in Genesis 3.
And it's true for your life.
For some of you, you have chosen sin over the Savior.
You've become really close friends with sin.
You're treating it like an animal, like a pet at home.
And now all of a sudden, you are deep in darkness.
Please do not be like the cockroach that goes running whenever the kitchen light of the gospel is turned on.
When the light of the gospel is turned on, step towards the light.
Say yes to Jesus.
Lord, I'm not going to hide my sin.
I'm not going to hide my shame.
You already know all about it.
So what I'm gonna take what's hidden in the dark, I'm gonna bring it out into the light.
I'm gonna let you heal me with your gospel.
And that's what Jesus does.
He doesn't beat you up.
He doesn't shame you.
That's not if you're past in your face.
Doesn't be like, this again, that's not who.
That may have been one of your parents.
That's not Jesus.
You can't take this idea of who God is based upon who your parents were or are.
You take God for who He is, it is word.
And He is the all loving Savior who opens wide His arms.
He loves,
It says, let me show you the power of my glorious grace by forgetting the most hardened and broken people.
And he will receive you.
So, Kenneth, what do you want us to do with this?
It's your impact point.
It's this.
Be born by the spirit and bought by the sons by banking your soul on Jesus.
In the late 1800s,
John Patton was a Scottish missionary who left his home country to go to the New Haberty Islands in the South Pacific.
The island that he was going to missionaries had gone before him, they had been killed in England by the people there.
and yet undeterred by the calling of God upon his life to go to an unreached people group with the gospel.
He goes and begins to love the people, teach them the Bible, and he makes inroads.
Amazing story of his life.
One of his tasks that he worked on was translating the Bible into their language.
What he struggled with was with the word belief.
It didn't have that word in their language.
One day, a villager came running across the island to see him.
Exhausted, the villager plops down on his chair in his hut and said, it feels so good to rest and put my full weight on this chair.
And it hit him, that's the word believes.
That phrase,
I'm tired and I'm gonna rest and put the full weight on something other than myself.
For some of you, you're like Nicodemus, you have been religious and you're tired.
You've been trying to keep all of these rules and you have neglected the relationship in which God says, hop off of your feet and let you just rest on my son.
Would you rest but your full weight
on Jesus.
He is an all-sufficient Savior who will receive you.
He will sustain you.
He will comfort you.
And He, when you rest on Him for salvation, He will save you.
And when you look by faith to the Lord Jesus Christ, it is in a den that you are born.
Again?
Trust in Jesus.
Rest in Him for salvation.
Father, I thank You for this glorious gospel.
Oh, how beautiful is Your plan and Your story?
That from before the foundations of the earth had ever been laid, this was Your plan to sin forth Your glorious Son, who had made the perfect salvation for us.
Father, I pray today, Lord, for anyone here who does not know Jesus yet,
I pray that today would be the day that they put their full weight on Jesus.
A day would not trust in themselves and they're being a good person and they're worldly philosophies and them trying to do these religious works.
No, God, I pray in Jesus' name they would rest in Jesus alone.
For you alone are the path of salvation.
You are the Savior, the rescuer, the redeemer of our souls and there's no one like you.
Father, I pray for those in this room who have experienced this miracle of salvation.
May your people bask in who you are and what you have done in them.
I pray, Father, that they would be eager to take this gospel to the nations and their neighbors.
May this story of your saving power through your son and what he did for us at the cross, may it be on our lips and overflowing out of our hearts, and we would tell our coworkers and neighbors and teammates.
or reducing the revival across our land of the people who are madly in love with Jesus and eager to show and tell this glorious gospel.
O Father, bless and strengthen your people today.
I pray, O God, that we would continually fall more in love with Jesus.
I'm being amazed who He is and worshiping Him for His glorious grace.
Gee, thank you Lord for this wonderful truth.
We rest in you, O God.
in Jesus' name we pray.
You know, all God's people said, Amen.
If you're here today and don't know Jesus, please don't leave our campus without trusting in Christ.
at the close of our service.
We're going to have some encouragers here at the front who would love to talk with you.
They'll be here at the steps here to answer questions.
You'll be like, I don't know how to put my faith in Jesus.
Come and talk with them.
They would love to talk with you.
If you have something going on in your life, which you want someone to pray with you, they would be honored to pray with you today.
I want to say thank you for your generosity and your giving.
There are buckets out in the atrium in which you can give.
You can also give online through the Westwood app.
Because of your giving, this gospel is going forth all
over the world.
Teenagers are getting baptized.
We're sending mission teams.
I mean, God is doing incredible work.
We are doing a pre-teen conference for fourth through sixth graders coming up in two weeks.
You won't want to miss it.
Now, I introduced last week this idea of the ping pong balls.
If you weren't here, I introduced this to our faith family.
What we're doing as a faith family in 2026 is we're encouraging you to share the gospel.
So if you have a teammate, a co-worker, a neighbor, a child, a grandchild, we want you sharing the gospel.
So every time you share the gospel, when you come to church, we want you to write that person's first name or their initials, and you can drop it in the box out in the atrium.
It says, we are sent, and it's got this plexiglass cover, and we're gonna fill that thing up because each ball represents a gospel conversation.
Doesn't mean that you're leading someone to faith in Jesus, although you might get to do that.
But if you're just taking these gospel moments and you're sharing Jesus, we wanna celebrate that.
We wanna see a tangible growth of the number of gospel conversations we as a faith family are having.
Now we also have one of these boxes with these ping pong balls upstairs for the student ministry.
Currently, adults, they have more balls of gospel conversations than you do.
So, as someone who is uber competitive,
I think we should step up our game.
What do you say?
All right.
Let's start sharing the gospel.
And we'll just keep celebrating that.
Church, I want you to know, I'm just absolutely crazy about you.
I love you so much.
But Jesus lets you learn.
Let's call him in the back of Jesus.
God, let's praise the Lord.